CropEye AI

Empowering Farmers with AI-Driven Drones

Welcome to CropEye AI, an open-source project designed to bring precision agriculture to life through AI-powered aerial analysis. We run a durian farm in the Southern Philippines, and we leveraged NVIDIA Jetson, CUDA, and YOLO to detect weeds and crop diseases in real-time—all from a drone. Now, we’re excited to share our work with the world!

Why CropEye?

Real-Time Detection: Catch issues early—like weeds, fungal infections, and dry patches—using a Jetson-equipped drone.

Reduced Labor: Automated aerial scans cut down on manual inspections, saving both time and resources.

Sustainable Practices: Targeted treatments help reduce excessive use of chemicals, preserving soil quality and boosting yield.

Open-Source Collaboration: Adapt and improve the system to suit different farms and crops.

Key Features

On-Drone Inference (NVIDIA Jetson): Run computer vision models directly on the drone for immediate results.

AI-Powered Weed & Disease Detection: Uses YOLO (or your choice of object detection/segmentation frameworks) for quick analysis.

Edge Computing: No need for constant internet access—perfect for remote farms.

GPS Tagging & Alerts: Automatically mark and track problem areas for targeted interventions.

Scalable & Modular: Easily tailor or expand the code for other crops or orchard types.

How It Works

Drone Flight: Launch the CropEye AI drone over your orchard.

Real-Time Analysis: The drone’s NVIDIA Jetson processes camera feeds instantly, detecting weeds, disease symptoms, or stressed soil.

Alerts & Overlays: Results are overlaid onto the live feed with bounding boxes, plus GPS coordinates for precise targeting.

Review & Action: Farm staff can immediately review flagged areas and plan interventions—spraying fungicide, removing weeds, etc.

      🚁 Drone Flight
          |
   🎥 Live Video Capture
          |
 🧠 AI Inference (Jetson)
          |
    Weed/Disease Alerts
          |
  GPS Tagging & Logging

Deployment on a Durian Farm

Location: Southern Philippines

Objectives: Early fungal detection, weed control, and overall orchard health monitoring.

Setup:

Drone with NVIDIA Jetson module

YOLO-based detection model

Edge inference for real-time bounding boxes

Outcome:

Reduced Manual Scouting: Quicker, more frequent scans of the orchard.

Targeted Chemical Use: Apply fungicides or herbicides exactly where needed.

Healthier Trees & Higher Yields: Early detection prevents disease spread and fruit loss.

Quick Start

Clone & Install:

git clone https://github.com/patrickrkahn/smart-farming-drone-ai.git
cd smart-farming-drone-ai
pip install -r requirements.txt

Run Demo:

Streamlit:

streamlit run app.py

CLI:

python smart_farming.py --source sample_farm_video.mp4

Train a Custom Model:

yolo train data=durian_farm.yaml model=yolov8n.pt epochs=50

Optimize for Jetson:

yolo export model=best.pt format=tensorrt

Contribute & Expand

We invite developers, farmers, and researchers worldwide to join:

Fork the Repo: Add features or improvements.

Open Issues & PRs: Collaborate on problem-solving.

Share Your Results: Tag us with #SmartFarmingAI and mention @NVIDIAGTC or @NVIDIADeveloper on social media.

License

CropEye AI is released under the MIT License, allowing easy use and adaptation. Check the LICENSE file for details.

“We built CropEye AI in our own durian orchard to detect problems faster and reduce manual labor. Now, we can’t wait to see how other farms benefit from it, too!”